README.md, before:

# OpenCV_Tutorial

This tutorial is developed from the
freeCodeCamp.org OpenCV Tutorial

https://youtu.be/oXlwWbU8l2o?si=53PRghV4ch3mmd2g

## What you will learn

### Basic

1. Reading Images and Video
2. Image Transformations
3. Drawing Shapes
4. Putting Text

### Advanced

1. Color Spaces
2. BITWISE operations
3. Masking
4. Histogram Computation
5. Edge Detection and Thresholding

### Faces:

1. Face Detection
2. Face Recognition
3. Deep Computer Vision (Classify the Simpsons)

## What is Computer Vision

A computer vision is an application of deep
earning that primarily focuses on deriving
insights from media files (images and videos).

## What is OpenCV

It is a computer vision library that is available
in Python, C++ and Java.

## Install the OpenCV library

### OpenCV

1. Open the terminal
2. ```pip install opencv-contrib-python```
3. This library includes the **main model** and the **contribution module** of the OpenCV library
4. The OpenCV library installation will also install the **numpy package** (for scientific computing).

### Caer

1. ```pip install caer```
2. This is the package to help speed up the workflow with a set of utility functions.

## Basics

### Reading Images & Video

import the library ```import cv2 as cv```

1. Read images
    * read the image file ```cv.imready(<file_path>)```
    * display the image ```cv.imshow(<display_window_name>,<img_file_variable>)```
    * OpenCV does not have the in-built way for ```cv.imshow()``` to deal with the image that far bigger than the
      screen. But there are other ways to mitigate the issue.

2. Read videos
    * read the video ```cv.VideoCapture([camera_idx],<file_path>)```
    * It uses a while loop to read the video frame by frame.
    * ```(-215:Assertion failed)``` This error means that the OpenCV cannot find any more frames after finish reading
      the entire video. (In general, the OpenCV cannot find the image or the video frame)

### Resize & Rescale

We resize or rescale image or video files to **prevent computation strain**. Large media files tend to store a lot of
information in it and displaying it takes up a lot of processing needs for the computer. So resizing and rescaling can
get rid of some of that information. Rescaling video implies modifying its height and width to **a particular height and
width**.

* This can resize images, videos and live
  videos ```cv.resize(<frame variable>, <dimensions[tuple]>, interpolation=cv.INTER_AREA)```.
* This can only resize live videos ```cv.set(<propid>,<scale>)```. For the ```propid```, 3 is for the width and 4 is for
  the height.

### Drawing Shapes & Putting Text

1. Paint color
2. Draw rectangles
3. Draw circles
4. Draw lines
5. Add texts

### Five Essential Functions in OpenCV

1. Grayscale the image *(you will only see the **color intensity** instead of BGR colors)*
2. Blur the image *(remove the **noise** in the image; **noise** means some elements in the image caused by the bad
   lighting or camera sensor issues)*
3. Edge cascade *(Find the **edge** in the image)*
4. Dilate and erode the image (via structuring elements)
5. Resize and cript the image

### Image Transformations

1. Translation *(shift the image along the x and y axis)*
2. Rotation *(rotate the image by some angle)*
3. Resize
4. Flip
5. Crop

### Contour Detection

Contours are the boundary of objects. --> The line or curve that joins the continues points along the boundary of an
object. *(In mathematical scopt, contours are **NOT** same to the edges.)*

```contours, hierarchies = cv.findContours(canny, mode=cv.RETR_LIST, method=cv.CHAIN_APPROX_NONE)```

1. ```contours```--> list of all the coordinates of contours that are found in the image.
2. ```hierarchies```--> hierarchical representation of contours.
3. ```mode params```:
    * ```RETR_LIST``` returns all the contours that are found in the image
    * ```RETR_EXTERNAL``` only returns the external contour of the image
    * ```RETR_TREE``` returns all the hieratical contours in the system
4. ```method params```  --> how we want to approximate the contour
    * ```CHAIN_APPROX_NONE``` --> does nothing, just return the all the contours
    * ```CHAIN_APPROX_SIMPLE``` --> compress all contours into two end points only

You can visualize the image contour in the OpenCV *by exactly drawing the contour over the
image:* ```cd ./5_contour_dectection./contour3.py ```

**RECALL:** *In the OpenCV color system, the order of color is BGR (Blue-Green-Red)*

Try to distinguish the difference to the Canny.

Commit message:

update the section 6 and finish on the section 7

README.md, after:

# OpenCV_Tutorial

This tutorial is developed from the
freeCodeCamp.org OpenCV Tutorial

https://youtu.be/oXlwWbU8l2o?si=53PRghV4ch3mmd2g

## What you will learn

### Basic

1. Reading Images and Video
2. Image Transformations
3. Drawing Shapes
4. Putting Text

### Advanced

1. Color Spaces
2. BITWISE operations
3. Masking
4. Histogram Computation
5. Edge Detection and Thresholding

### Faces:

1. Face Detection
2. Face Recognition
3. Deep Computer Vision (Classify the Simpsons)

## What is Computer Vision

A computer vision is an application of deep
earning that primarily focuses on deriving
insights from media files (images and videos).

## What is OpenCV

It is a computer vision library that is available
in Python, C++ and Java.

## Install the OpenCV library

### OpenCV

1. Open the terminal
2. ```pip install opencv-contrib-python```
3. This library includes the **main model** and the **contribution module** of the OpenCV library
4. The OpenCV library installation will also install the **numpy package** (for scientific computing).

### Caer

1. ```pip install caer```
2. This is the package to help speed up the workflow with a set of utility functions.

## Basics

### Reading Images & Video

import the library ```import cv2 as cv```

1. Read images
    * read the image file ```cv.imready(<file_path>)```
    * display the image ```cv.imshow(<display_window_name>,<img_file_variable>)```
    * OpenCV does not have the in-built way for ```cv.imshow()``` to deal with the image that far bigger than the
      screen. But there are other ways to mitigate the issue.

2. Read videos
    * read the video ```cv.VideoCapture([camera_idx],<file_path>)```
    * It uses a while loop to read the video frame by frame.
    * ```(-215:Assertion failed)``` This error means that the OpenCV cannot find any more frames after finish reading
      the entire video. (In general, the OpenCV cannot find the image or the video frame)

### Resize & Rescale

We resize or rescale image or video files to **prevent computation strain**. Large media files tend to store a lot of
information in it and displaying it takes up a lot of processing needs for the computer. So resizing and rescaling can
get rid of some of that information. Rescaling video implies modifying its height and width to **a particular height and
width**.

* This can resize images, videos and live
  videos ```cv.resize(<frame variable>, <dimensions[tuple]>, interpolation=cv.INTER_AREA)```.
* This can only resize live videos ```cv.set(<propid>,<scale>)```. For the ```propid```, 3 is for the width and 4 is for
  the height.

### Drawing Shapes & Putting Text

1. Paint color
2. Draw rectangles
3. Draw circles
4. Draw lines
5. Add texts

### Five Essential Functions in OpenCV

1. Grayscale the image *(you will only see the **color intensity** instead of BGR colors)*
2. Blur the image *(remove the **noise** in the image; **noise** means some elements in the image caused by the bad
   lighting or camera sensor issues)*
3. Edge cascade *(Find the **edge** in the image)*
4. Dilate and erode the image (via structuring elements)
5. Resize and cript the image

### Image Transformations

1. Translation *(shift the image along the x and y axis)*
2. Rotation *(rotate the image by some angle)*
3. Resize
4. Flip
5. Crop

### Contour Detection

Contours are the boundary of objects. --> The line or curve that joins the continues points along the boundary of an
object. *(In mathematical scopt, contours are **NOT** same to the edges.)*

```contours, hierarchies = cv.findContours(canny, mode=cv.RETR_LIST, method=cv.CHAIN_APPROX_NONE)```

1. ```contours```--> list of all the coordinates of contours that are found in the image.
2. ```hierarchies```--> hierarchical representation of contours.
3. ```mode params```:
    * ```RETR_LIST``` returns all the contours that are found in the image
    * ```RETR_EXTERNAL``` only returns the external contour of the image
    * ```RETR_TREE``` returns all the hieratical contours in the system
4. ```method params```  --> how we want to approximate the contour
    * ```CHAIN_APPROX_NONE``` --> does nothing, just return the all the contours
    * ```CHAIN_APPROX_SIMPLE``` --> compress all contours into two end points only

You can visualize the image contour in the OpenCV *by exactly drawing the contour over the
image:* ```cd ./5_contour_dectection./contour3.py ```

**RECALL:** *In the OpenCV color system, the order of color is BGR (Blue-Green-Red)*

Try to distinguish the difference to the Canny. ```cd ./5_contour_dectection./contour4.py```

When looking or contours, it is recommended to use the Canny method first, and then try to find the contour by using
that, rather than using the threshold firstly. Because the simple thresholding has its disadvantages because we just
pass a single(one) value and try to binarize the image using this threshold value.

## Advance

### Color Space

This section is going to talk about how to switch the color space via the OpenCV. **Color Space** is a space of colors,
a system of representing an array of pixel colors (e.g. RGB, Grayscale, HSV)

1. ```spaces1.py``` Convert BGR to Grayscale.
2. ```spaces2.py``` Convert BGR to HSV *(hue saturation value)*. It is based on how human see and think of the color. *(
   For more information, check https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HSL_and_HSV)*
3. ```spaces3.py``` Covert BGR to LAB (L\*a\*b) *(For more information,
   check https://www.mathworks.com/discovery/lab-color.html#:~:text=Lab%20color%20space%20is%20a,colors%20outside%20of%20human%20perception)*
4. OpenCV read the image in the **BGR** color format. Outside the OpenCV, the color is not coded in the BGR. It may be
   coded as **RGB**. Check ```spaces4.py``` as an example.
5. ```spaces5.py``` OpenCV has its own way to convert the BGR image into the RGB.
6. **RECALL:** You cannot directly convert grayscale to HSV, Instead, you need to convert the grayscale firstly to BGR,
   then from BGR to HSV. ```space6.py``` shows an example of the reverse conversion to the BGR format.
